README.md, before:

# deen

An application that allows to apply encoding, compression and hashing to generic input data. It is meant to be a handy tool for quick encoding/decoding tasks for data to be used in other applications. It aims to be a lightweight alternative to other tools that might take a long time to startup and should not have too many dependencies. It includes a GUI for easy interaction and integration in common workflows as well as a CLI that might be usefule for automation tasks.

## Compatibility

The code should be compatible with Python 2 (at least 2.7.x) and Python 3. However, deen is mainly developed for Python 3 and some features may be temporarily broken in Python 2. It is strongly recommended to use deen with Python 3.

The GUI should run on most operating systems supported by Python. It was tested on Linux and Windows. Hopefully compatibility for different Python versions and operating systems will improve in the future. Feel free to test it and create [issues](https://github.com/takeshixx/deen/issues)!

Some transformers will only be available in more recent versions of Python. This includes e.g. Base85 (Python 3.4 or newer) or the BLAKE2b and BLAKE2s hash algorithms (Python 3.6 or newer).

## Installation

Install via `pip`:

```bash
pip3 install .
```

After installation, just run:
    
```bash
deen
```

*Note*: If you want to run deen on older versions of Python like Python 2, you have to use `pip` instead of `pip3`.

*Note*: If the installation fails with an error like "Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement PyQt5", then you are trying to install deen via pip on a version of Python < 3.5. In this case, you cannot install PyQt5 via `pip`. You have to install PyQt5 separately, e.g. via your package manager (e.g. `pacman -S python2-pyqt5` on Arch Linux for Python 2).

### Packages

There is a [deen-git](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/deen-git) package available in the Arch User Repository (AUR).

## Usage

See the [wiki](https://github.com/takeshixx/deen/wiki) for basic and more advanced usage examples.

### GUI

By invoking deen without any command line arguments, the graphical interface will start.

![deen](https://i.imgur.com/522iUtH.png)

The GUI also supports reading input from files:

```
deen /bin/ls
```

and from STDIN:

```
cat /bin/ls | deen -
```

### CLI

Some functionality is also available via a CLI. A list of available operations and supported transfomers is available in the help page (`-h`/`--help`) and with the list command (`-l`/`--list`). The command line can read input either from a file:

```
deen --hash sha256 /bin/ls
```

or from STDIN by using `-` as a file name:

```
cat /bin/ls | deen --hash sha256 -
```

Alternatively an input string can also be supplied with the `--data` argument:

```
deen --encode base64 --data admin:admin
```

Commit message:

Added info for installing optional dependencies

README.md, after:

# deen

An application that allows to apply encoding, compression and hashing to generic input data. It is meant to be a handy tool for quick encoding/decoding tasks for data to be used in other applications. It aims to be a lightweight alternative to other tools that might take a long time to startup and should not have too many dependencies. It includes a GUI for easy interaction and integration in common workflows as well as a CLI that might be usefule for automation tasks.

## Compatibility

The code should be compatible with Python 2 (at least 2.7.x) and Python 3. However, deen is mainly developed for Python 3 and some features may be temporarily broken in Python 2. It is strongly recommended to use deen with Python 3.

The GUI should run on most operating systems supported by Python. It was tested on Linux and Windows. Hopefully compatibility for different Python versions and operating systems will improve in the future. Feel free to test it and create [issues](https://github.com/takeshixx/deen/issues)!

Some transformers will only be available in more recent versions of Python. This includes e.g. Base85 (Python 3.4 or newer) or the BLAKE2b and BLAKE2s hash algorithms (Python 3.6 or newer).

## Installation

Install via `pip`:

```bash
pip3 install .
```

After installation, just run:
    
```bash
deen
```

*Note*: If you want to run deen on older versions of Python like Python 2, you have to use `pip` instead of `pip3`.

*Note*: If the installation fails with an error like "Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement PyQt5", then you are trying to install deen via pip on a version of Python < 3.5. In this case, you cannot install PyQt5 via `pip`. You have to install PyQt5 separately, e.g. via your package manager (e.g. `pacman -S python2-pyqt5` on Arch Linux for Python 2).

### Optional Dependencies

There are several optional dependencies that can be installed via pip with the following command:

```
pip3 install .[X509]
pip3 install .[JS-Beautifier]
```

### Packages

There is a [deen-git](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/deen-git) package available in the Arch User Repository (AUR).

## Usage

See the [wiki](https://github.com/takeshixx/deen/wiki) for basic and more advanced usage examples.

### GUI

By invoking deen without any command line arguments, the graphical interface will start.

![deen](https://i.imgur.com/522iUtH.png)

The GUI also supports reading input from files:

```
deen /bin/ls
```

and from STDIN:

```
cat /bin/ls | deen -
```

### CLI

Some functionality is also available via a CLI. A list of available operations and supported transfomers is available in the help page (`-h`/`--help`) and with the list command (`-l`/`--list`). The command line can read input either from a file:

```
deen --hash sha256 /bin/ls
```

or from STDIN by using `-` as a file name:

```
cat /bin/ls | deen --hash sha256 -
```

Alternatively an input string can also be supplied with the `--data` argument:

```
deen --encode base64 --data admin:admin
```
